Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Woodruff: RAIN AND SNOW MADE
ONE OF THE BUSIEST TRAVEL DAYS
OF THE AR, YETHAT MUCH MESSIER,
AS MILLIONS OF AMERICANS HIT THE
ROAD FOR THANKSGIVING.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCED A
DELAY IN ANOER KTHEY COMPONENT
OF THE NEW HEALTH CARE LAW:
SMALL BUSINESSES WILL HAVE AN
EXTRA YEAR TO SIGN UP FOR
FEDERAL INSURANCE EXCHANGES.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, TAKE SOME
SWEET CORN, TOMATO SAUCE, TUNA
FISH AND MAKE A MASSIVE
SCULPTURE IN A COMPETITION AIMED
AT BOOSTING HOLIDAY FOOD DRIVES.
>> THE MOMENT THAT THAT TEMPLATE
COMES DOWN, AND YOU CAN ACTUALLY
SEE THE LIGHT FROM THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE ARCH, THAT'S THE
MOMENT OF, YES, IT WORKS.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S
"PBS NEWSHOUR".
>> Ifill: A MAJOR WINTER STORM
SYSTEM SLAMMED INTO THE MID-
ATLANTIC AND NORTHEAST TODAY,
JUST AS MILLIONS OF AMERICANS
HIT THE ROADS, RAILS AND SKIES
FOR THE THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY.
A DISMAL MIX OF RAIN, SNOW, WIND
AND SLEET GREETED HOLIDAY
TRAVELERS, WHO BRAVED LONG
AIRPORT LINES, HEAVY TRAFFIC AND
DANGEROUS ROAD CONDITIONS ON ONE
OF THE BUSIEST TRAVEL DAYS OF
THE YEAR.
>> I JUST LOST CONTROL AND HIT
GUESS I SPUN AND LANDED OVER
THERE.
>> Ifill: NORTH OF PITTSBURGH,
THIS MAN MANAGED TO ESCAPE WITH
MINOR INJURIES AFTER FLIPPING
HIS CAR.
AND UP AND DOWN THE EAST COAST
THE WINTRY MIX LED VEHICLES TO
SPIN OUT AND DRIVERS TO THROTTLE
BACK.
>> YEAH, I USUALLY TRY TO SLOW
DOWN A LITTLE BIT, EVEN THOUGH I
HAVE A LEAD FOOT.
>> DEFINITELY THE SPEED LIMIT, A
LITTLE BIT UP UNDER.
AND CHECK YOUR TIRES, YOU KNOW,
THAT VER'SY IMPORTANT.
>> Ifill: SOME 39 MILLION
DRIVERS ARE EXPECTED TO HIT THE
ROAD OVER THE LONG HOLIDAY
WEEKEND.
BUT FOR THOSE TAKING TO THE
SKIES, ABOUT 200 FLIGHTS WERE
CANCELED EARLIER TODAY, MOSTLY
IN THE BUSY NORTHEAST HUBS OF
NEWARK, PHILADELPHIA AND NEW
YORK'S LAGUARDIA.
WHILE THERE WERE MANY WEATHER-
RELATED DELAYS, OVERALL THE
SITUATION WASN'T AS BAD AS ONCE
FEARED.
AT WASHINGTON'S REAGAN
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PASSENGERS
WERE TRYING TO STAY POSITIVE.
>> I TRIED TO GET ON AN EARLIER
FLIGHT BUT THAT FLIGHT WAS FULL
SO I MIGHT BE STUCK HERE FOR A
WHILE.
>> WE RRIEFD TWO HOURS EARLY FOR
OUR FLIGHT BECAUSE WE WERE
CONCERNED ABOUT WEATHER DELAYS,
AND WE DO, IN FACT, HAVE WEATHER
DEYS.LA
HOPEFULLY WE'LL GET OUT UNDER A
THREE-HOUR RANGE.
>> Ifill: IT WAS A BUSY DAY AT
NEARBY UNION STATION, WHERE
TRAIN PASSENGERS SAID THEY WERE
GLAD THEY'D AVOIDED THE ROADS.
>> LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, WE HAVE
A VERY FULL TRAIN THIS AFTERNOON
WHICH MEANS WE WILL NEED EVERY
SEAT AVAILABLE.
>> I COULD BE ON A BUS SO I'M
THINKING THIS IS BETTER THAN
BEING ON A BUS.
>> Ifill: THE NATIONAL WEATHER
SERVICE SAYS MORE THAN A FOOT OF
SNOW COULD STILL FALL IN WESTERN
PENNSYLVANIA, NEW YORK AND
VERMONT BEFORE LIFTING TOMORROW.
BUT IN MANY AREAS, THE STORM'S
EXPECTED TO CLEAR OUT AS
TEMPERATURES FALL THROUGH THE
EVENING.
THAT MAY BE TOO LATE FOR MACY'S
ANNUAL THANKSGIVING PARADE IN
NEW YORK CITY.
DANCERS DONNED PONCHOS IN HERALD
SQUARE, PRACTICING THEIR
ROUTINES IN THE RAIN.
BUT HIGH WINDS ARE THREATENING
TO TAKE THE AIR OUT OF THE
LARGER-THAN-LIFE BALLOONS THAT
PARADE DOWN BROADWAY FOR THE
FIRST TIME IN MORE THAN 40
YEARS; CHARACTERS LIKE SNOOPY
AND SPONGEBOB SQUAREPANTS MIGHT
BE GROUNDED.
OFFICIALS PLAN TO MAKE THAT CALL
EARLY TOMORROW.
FOR THE LATEST ON THE STORMS AND
HOW THEY ARE AFFECTING HOLIDAY
TRAVEL, WE TURN TO BERNIE RAYNO,
SENIOR METEOROLOGIST AT
ACCUWEATHER.
BERNIE, AS FAR AS LATE FALL,
EARLY WINTER STOORMS GO, HOW BIG
IS THIS ONE?
>> IT'S A BIG STORM, CERTAINLY,
BUT CERTAINLY STORMS WE HAVE
SEEN IN THE PAST AND TYPICALLY
THESE KIND OF STORMS PRODUCE
MOSTLY RAIN ALONG THE EAST COAST
WITH THE SNOWS ACROSS INTERIOR
PARTS OF PENNSYLVANIA BE AND NEW
YORK STATE, AND THAT'S CERTAINLY
WHAT WE'VE HAD WITH THIS STORM.
UNFORTUNATELY, THIS STORM
OCCURRED ON THE WORST POSSIBLE
DAY, THAT BEING THE BUSIEST
TRAVEL DAY OF THE YEAR.
>> Ifill: SO THE BUSIEST
TRAVEL DAY OF THE YEAR, IN
PRETTY BIG TRANSPORTATION
CORRIDORS.
WHERE IS IT HITTING HARDEST?
WE'RE TALKING ICE IN SOME PLACE,
RAIN IN SOME PLACE, SNOW IN
OTHERS?
>> AT THIS POINT RIGHT NOW THE
BIGGEST IMPACT HAS BEEN THE
RAIN.
BACK EDGE OF THE RAIN IS PUSHING
THROUGH PHILADELPHIA.
WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO GET
SOAKING RAINS FROM BOSTON ALL
THE WAY UP TOWARD PORTLAND,
MAINE.
AT LEAST THE STRONG WINDS WE HAD
OUT AHEAD OF THIS STORM HAVE THE
EAST FOR NOW.
I-95, SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND, UP
IN INTO MAINE, STILL SOME SLOE
DOWNS.
WATCH YOURSELF IF YOU'RE
TRAVELING IN NEW YORK STATE AND
PENNSYLVANIA.
WHILE WE'RE NOT LOOK AT ANY BIG
AMOUNTS OF SNOW AND ICE FROM
HEREON OUT THERE CERTAINLY CAN
BE SOME SLIPPERY SPOTS ON THE
ROAD ESPECIALLY THE BRIDGEES AND
OVERPASSES.
>> Ifill: IT SOUNDS LIKE THE
MOST TREACHEROUS IS SLIPPERY
ROADSES AND ICE ON POWER
OUTAGES.
HAVE WE HAD ANY REPORT OF THAT?
>> WE CERTAINLY HAVE HAD THAT
OVER THE LAST 24 HOURS,
ESPECIALLY ACROSS NEW YORK STATE
AND PENNSYLVANIA.
BUT THANKFULLY NOW, MOST OF THE
PRECIPITATION WITH THE STORM IS
OCCURRING IN THE WARM AIR.
SO THE SNOW AND ICE THAT WE WERE
SEEING LAST NIGHT, MOSTLY JUST
SOME SNOW SHOWERS, STILL SOME
SLIPPERY SPOTS ON ROADS.
BUT THINGS HAVE GOTTEN A LITTLE
BETTER WHERE IT WAS SNOWING IN
THE LAST 24 HOURS.
>> Ifill: HOW ARE THE WIND?
I KNOW THERE WERE A LOT OF
WORRIES THAT SOME OF THESE
THANKSGIVING DAY PARADES MIGHT
NOT BE ABLE TO HAPPEN?
>> WELL, THAT'S STILL A CLOSE
CALL IN NEW YORK CITY FOR
TOMORROW BECAUSE BEHIND THIS
STORM, WHILE WE CERTAINLY HAD
LOTS OF WIND AHEAD OF IT, BEHIND
THE STORM THE WIND WILL START
PICKING UP.
CERTAINLY THIS EVENING,
PHILADELPHIA, WASHINGTON, D.C.,
LATE TONIGHT, TOMORROW MORNING
IN NEW YORK CITY.
WE'RE GOING TO SEE GUST BETWEENS
30-35 MILES PER HOUR.
BUT IN NEW YORK CITY, GUSTS
AROUND 20-30 TOMORROW MORNING.
THAT MAY CAUSE SOME PROBLEMS BUT
FROM WHAT I UNDERSTAND, FOR THE
MACY'S DAY PARADE, YOU NEED
SUSTAINED WIND BETWEEN 20 AND 25
MILES PER HOUR.
I DON'T THINK THEY'RE GOING TO
BE THAT STRONG ON THANKSGIVING
MORNING, BUT IT'S CERTAINLY
GOING TO BE A CLOSE CALL.
>> Ifill: BY THE TIME
EVERYBODY SITS DOWN WITH THE
TURKEY TOMORROW MOST OF THIS
WILL BE PASSED?
>> IT WILL BE LONG GONE.
YOU KNOW WHAT THE BIG STORY IS
GOING TO BE IS THE COLD.
WE'RE LOOKING AT RECORD COLD
TEMPERATURES ON OUR WEDNESDAY
NIGHT-THURSDAY MORNING, ALL THE
WAY DOWN INTO PARTS OF FLORIDA
AND TEXAS.
IN FACT, WE'RE LOOKING AT
TEMPERATURES BELOW FREEZING,
ACROSS THE FLORIDA PANHANDLE.
IT CERTAINLY WILL NOT FEEL LIKE
THE END OF NOVEMBER.
IT WILL FEEL LIKE JANUARY.
>> Ifill: I'M COLD JUST
THINKING ABOUT IT.
BERNIE RAYNO, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER ASPECT OF THE
HEALTH CARE LAW WILL BE DELAYED.
THIS TIME, THE ONLINE HEALTH
INSURANCE MARKETPLACE FOR SMALL
BUSINESSES.
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
ANNOUNCED THE ONE-YEAR DELAY
DURING A CONFERENCE CALL WITH
REPORTERS TODAY.
THEY SAID PUSHING BACK THE
DEADLINE FOR IMPLEMENTATION
WOULD GIVE THE TROUBLED
healthcare.gov WEBSITE TIME TO
MAKE NEEDED FIXES.
WE'LL GET MORE DETAILS ON THE
DELAY AND WHAT IT MEANS TO SMALL
BUSINESS OWNERS AFTER THIS NEWS
SUMMARY.
AFGHAN PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI
SOFTENED SOME OF HIS SECURITY
DEMANDS TODAY.
HE TOLD RADIO FREE EUROPE HE'D
SIGN A DEAL WITH THE U.S.
IF MILITARY RAIDS ON AFGHAN
HOMES END AND IF THE U.S. HELPS
RESTART PEACE TALKS WITH THE
TALIBAN.
HE SAID, "WHENEVER THE AMERICANS
MEET THESE TWO DEMANDS OF MINE,
I AM READY TO SIGN THE
AGREEMENT."
THAT AGREEMENT WOULD GOVERN THE
FUTURE OF AMERICAN TROOPS IN
AFGHANISTAN BEYOND 2014.
THE U.S. WANTS IT SIGNED BY THE
END OF THE YEAR, BUT KARZAI HAS
SAID IT CAN WAIT UNTIL NEXT
SPRING.
A STRING OF ATTACKS ACROSS IRAQ
LEFT AT LEAST 36 PEOPLE DEAD
TODAY.
THE VIOLENCE RANGED FROM SUICIDE
BOMBINGS TO DRIVE-BY SHOOTINGS
TO AN ASSAULT ON A POLICE
STATION.
SEPARATELY, POLICE FOUND THE
CORPSES OF 13 MEN KILLED
EXECUTION STYLE IN SHI-ITE
NEIGHBORHOODS OF BAGHDAD.
THE MEN HAD NO IDENTIFICATION ON
THEM AND THEIR LEGS AND ARMS HAD
BEEN TIED BEFORE THEY WERE SHOT
IN THE HEAD.
ONE MORE PERSON WAS RESCUED
TODAY FROM A SAILBOAT THAT
CAPSIZED IN THE BAHAMAS,
BRINGING THE TOTAL RESCUES TO
111.
BUT OFFICIALS ESTIMATE BETWEEN
20 AND 30 OF THE HAITIAN
MIGRANTS CRAMMED ON BOARD DIED.
U.S. COAST GUARD VIDEO SHOWS
SURVIVORS CLINGING TO THE
OVERLOADED BOAT'S HULL AND MAST.
OTHERS GRABBED DRIFTWOOD AND
TOOK REFUGE ON SMALL ISLANDS
NEARBY.
OFFICIALS THINK THE BOAT WAS
HEADED TO THE U.S.
AN ACCIDENT AT BRAZIL'S MAIN
WORLD CUP STADIUM IN
SAO PAULO KILLED TWO WORKERS
TODAY.
A CRANE COLLAPSED WHILE IT WAS
LIFTING A SECTION OF THE SOCCER
STADIUM'S ROOF INTO PLACE.
THE METAL STRUCTURE SLICED
THROUGH THE STADIUM'S OUTER
WALL, DESTROYING ROWS OF SEATS.
BRAZIL'S PREPARATIONS FOR NEXT
YEAR'S WORLD CUP HAVE BEEN
PLAGUED WITH PROBLEMS, INCLUDING
DELAYS, ACCIDENTS AND
OVERSPENDING.
THE PRIME MINISTER OF LATVIA
RESIGNED TODAY IN E WATHKE OF A
SUPERMARKET COLLAPSE THAT
TRIGGERED PUBLIC OUTRAGE IN THE
BALTIC STATE.
54 PEOPLE WERE KILLED LAST WEEK
WHEN THE BUILDING'S ROOF
COLLAPSED DURING PEAK SHOPPING
HOURS.
THE LATVIAN GOVERNMENT CAME
UNDER FIRE FOR ITS LACK OF
OVERSIGHT OF BUILDING PROJECTS.
PRIME MINISTER VALDIS DOMBROV-
SKIS ACKOWLEDGED THE DISASTER IN
HIS ANNOUNCEMENT.
>> ( translated ): CONSIDERING
THE TRAGEDY IN ZOLITUDE, AND
TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THAT A
GOVERNMENT WITH A CLEAR MAJORITY
IN PARLIAMENT IS NEEDED TO SOLVE
THE SITUATION THAT HAS DEVELOPED
IN THE COUNTRY, I ANNOUNCE MY
RESIGNATION FROM THE POST OF
PRIME MINISTER, TAKING POLITICAL
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE TRAGEDY.
>> Ifill: A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION INTO THE
SUPERMARKET'S CONSTRUCTION IS
UNDERWAY.
THE ITALIAN SENATE EXPELLED
FORMER PREMIER SILVIO BERLUSCONI
FROM PARLIAMENT OVER A TAX FRAUD
CONVICTION.
DESPITE THE MOVE, THE 77-YEAR
OLD PLEDGED TO STAY INVOLVED IN
POLITICS.
WITHOUT A SEAT IN PARLIAMENT,
HOWEVER, BERLUSCONI IS NO LONGER
IMMUNE FROM PROSECUTION.
HE HAS MULTIPLE CASES PENDING
AGAINST HIM, INCLUDING POLITICAL
BRIBERY AND PAYING FOR SEX WITH
A MINOR.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, STOCKS
HEADED INTO THE HOLIDAY BREAK
WITH RECORD HIGHS FOR BOTH THE
DOW AND S&P 500.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 24 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,097.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 27 POINTS TO
CLOSE ABOVE 4,044.
THE FIRST BOOK PRINTED IN
AMERICA SOLD AT AUCTN LAIOST
NIGHT FOR A RECORD $14.2
MILLION.
THE BAY PSALM BOOK WAS AUCTIONED
OFF AT SOTHEBY'S IN NEW YORK.
IT WAS PRINTED IN 1640 BY THE
LEADERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS BAY
COLONY.
ONLY 11 COPIES ARE KNOWN TO
SURVIVE.
AUCTIONEER DAVID REDDEN
EXPLAINED WHAT THE BUYER INTENDS
TO DO WITH IT.
>> IT SOLD FOR $14 MILLION TO
DAVID RUBENSTEIN A
PHILANTHROPIST WHO WILL BE
SHARING IT WITH LIBRARIES AROUND
THIS COUNTRY AND EVENTUALLY
PUTTING IT ON LONG TERM DEPOSIT
AT ONE OF THOSE LIBRARIES.
>> Ifill: THE SELLER OF THE BOOK
WAS BOSTON'S OLD SOUTH CHURCH,
WHICH SOLD IT TO FINANCE ITS
ONGOING MINISTRIES.
THE CHURCH STILL HAS ANOTHER
COPY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA KICKED OFF THE
THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY EARLY AT
THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY WITH THE
TRADITIONAL ANNUAL TURKEY
PARDON.
FLANKED BY HIS DAUGHTERS, THE
PRESIDENT OFFICIALLY SAVED A
BIRD NAMED "POPCORN" FROM ENDING
UP ON A THANKSGIVING TABLE.
A SECOND, BACK-UP TURKEY NAMED
"CARAMEL" WAS ALSO PARDONED BUT
DIDN'T APPEAR AT THE CEREMONY.
PARDONED TURKEYS END UP AT
GEORGE WASHINGTON'S MOUNT VERNON
ESTATE IN VIRGINIA.
STILL TO COME ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
ANOTHER DELAY FOR THE HEALTH
CARE LAW; THE BRIBERY SCANDAL
THAT'S ROCKED THE NAVY; TEACHING
THE ARTS IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL;
WHO'S PAYING FOR CLIMATE CHANGE
AND MAKING MASSIVE SCULPTURES
OUT OF CANNED FOOD.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE WHITE
HOUSE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT ANOTHER
KEY ELEMENT OF PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
HEALTH CARE LAW IS NOT READY TO
GO:
SMALL BUSINESSES WILL NOT BE
ABLE TO ENROLL THEIR EMPLOYEES
ON THE FEDERAL WEBSITE UNTIL
NOVEMBER OF NEXT YEAR.
COVERAGE WOULD NOT TAKE EFFECT
UNTIL JANUARY OF 2015.
THEY CAN CONTINUE TO GO THROUGH
INSURANCE COMPANIES AND BROKERS.
IT IS THE LATEST IN A SERIES OF
SET-BACKS THAT HAVE PLAGUED
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
PRESIDENT'S PLAN.
TO FILL US IN ON THE DETAILS, WE
TURN TO LOUISE RADNOFSKY OF THE
WALL STREET JOURNAL..
LOUISE, WELCOME BACK TO PROGRAM.
WHY DID THE ADMINISTRATION DO
THIS?
>> WELL, THEY DID IT BECAUSE IT
WASN'T READY AND BECAUSE THEY
SAID THEY WERE FOCUSING ON OTHER
THINGS-- GETTING THE WEB SITE UP
AND RUNNING FOR INDIVIDUALS.
THIS IS SOMETHING THEY FELT
THAIBD JETTISON, AND THEY DID.
>> Woodruff: TELL US WHICH
SMALL BUSINESSES ARE AFFECTED.
I KNOW NOT ALL OF THEM HAVE TO
PAY ATTENTION TO THIS
REGULATION, THOSE WITH EMPLOYEES
UNDER 50?
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> YES, AND A NUMBER OF SMALL
BUSINESSES DO VOLUNTARILY
PROVIDE COVERAGE TO THEIR
EMPLOYEES RIGHT NOW AND WANT TO
CONTINUE DOING SO NEXT YEAR.
THERE'S NOTHING IN THE LAW THAT
REQUIRES THEM TO DO SO, BUT THE
LAW INCLUDES TAX CREDITS TOWARDS
THE COST OF THE COVERAGE IN SOME
CASES.
FOR SMALL BUSINESSES ANTHRAX BUY
THROUGH healthcare.gov, WHICH
WOULD BE IN ONE OF THE 36 STATES
WHERE THE EXCHANGE ISN'T BEING
RUN BY THE STATE ITSELF, THEY'RE
NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO USE THE
WEB SITE.
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
CONTINUE TO GO TO AN INSURER OR
AGENT OR BROKER-- PROBABLY
SOMEBODY THEY'RE USING ALREADY--
AND THEY'LL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO APPLY LATER IN THE YEAR FOR
TAX CREDITS, BASICALLY ANY TIME
BEFORE THEY FILE THEIR TAXES.
>> Woodruff: EXPAND ON THAT.
EXPLAIN WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE
GOING TO BE?
IF YOU RUN A SMALL BUSINESS AND
WERE COUNTING ON SIGNING UP
THROUGH THE EXCHANGE, AND NOW
YOU'RE TOLD YOU NEED TO GO
THROUGH AN INSURANCE COMPANY OR
BROKER WHAT, WILL THE DIFFERENCE
BE?
>> THE DIFFERENCE IS-- IT'S
QUITE A BIG CLOA BLOWTO THE IDEA
OF THE EXCHANGE WHICH WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE AN ONLINE
MARKETPLACE TO COMPARE PLANS AND
FINDIZE THE PROCESS.
IT WAS DESIGNED TO INCREASE
COMPETITION AND MORE
TRANSPARENCY.
YOU CAN STILL GO ONLINE STARTING
DECEMBER 1 AND BROWSE THROUGH
OPPOSITIONS, BUT YOU CAN'T
COMPLETE IT.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU LOSE OUT
BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT ELIGIBLE FOR
ANY SORT OF TAX CREDIT SUBS BEE?
>> YOU'RE STILL ABLE TO GET THE
TAX CREDIT.
THE TAX CREDIT IS SUPPOSED TO BE
APPLIED TO ANY PLAN THAT THE
AGENT OR BROKER OR INSURERS IS
OFFERING THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
AVAILABLE ON THE EXCHANGE.
IN OTHER WORDS, IT HAD BEEN
CERTIFIED AS BEING COMPLIANT
WITH THE NEW REQUIREMENT NPTZ
LAW.
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE LAW FOR
SMALL GROUP PLANS GO A LITTLE
FURTHER.
THEY DO AFFECT THE WAY SMALL
GROUP INSURANCE IS PRICED FOR
THE FIRST TIME-- AGAIN, NO
PREEXISTING CONDITIONS -- AND SO
SMALL BUSINESSES ACROSS THE
BOARD, HOWEVER THEY GET THEIR
COVERAGE WILL BENEFIT FROM THAT.
BUT THE EXCHANGE WAS SUCH AN
IMPORTANT CENTERPIECE OF THIS
GLIED GLOOD LOUISE, HOW BIG A
BLOW IS THIS TO THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THIS NEW LAW?
>> IT ONLY AFFECTS SMALL
BUSINESSES, AND CLEARLY, FOR THE
MOST HIGH-PROFILE PART OF THE
LAW, ATTEMPTING TO EXTEND
COVERAGE TO INDIVIDUALS WHO
DON'T HAVE IT, IT DOESN'T AFFECT
IT.
IF YOU THINK IN TERMS OF WHAT IT
WOULD HAVE MEANT IF IT HAD BEEN
INDIVIDUALS.
IT'S THE ADMINISTRATION
BASICALLY SAYING WE CAN'T GET
THIS PARTICULAR PART OF THE
EXCHANGE UP AND RUNNING FOR
ANOTHER YEAR SO WE'RE GIVING UP.
GO BACK TO YOUR INSURER AND
WE'LL TRY TO FIG OUT THE TAX
SUBS BEE LATER.
>> Woodruff: THE
ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCED ANOTHER
CHANGE SAYING THEY ARE REPLACE
THE WEB HOSTING PROVIDER FOR THE
ONLINE EXCHANGE.
TELL BUS THAT.
>> WELL, THIS IS A DECISION
THAT, APPARENTLY, WAS REACHED IN
THE SUMMER OR EARLIER, BUT THE
WEB-- THE VERIZON PROVIDER OF
THE DATA CENTER THAT WAS
SUPPORTING THE SITE HAD A NUMBER
OF OUTAGES THAT STARTED TO
EMERGE AFTER OCTOBER 1.
IT'S BEEN VERY EMBARRASSING FOR
EVERYBODY INVOLVED.
THEY ARE MAKING A SWITCH.
THEY'RE PLANNING TO DO THAT BY
THE END OF MARCH.
WHAT PEOPLE NEED TON IS FIRST OF
ALL, THE EXISTING PROIRLD WILL
BE STAYING IN PLACE FOR THE TIME
BEING AND THAT PROVIDER HAS HAD
SOME PROBLEMS.
BUT SECONDLY, THE TRANSITION
ITSELF, THEY HAVE TO GET THIS
INTO GEAR, COULD BE BUMPY, AND
IT'S NOT AS IF THE WEB SITE
DOESN'T HAVE ENOUGH PROBLEMS
ALREADY.
>> Woodruff: AND SO SUMMING IT
ALL UP FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
LOOK AT THE NOVEMBER 30
DEADLINE, THE ADMINISTRATION
SET, AS THE NEW DEADLINE FOR
PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO SIGN UP,
THEY SAID THE WEB SITE'S GOING
TO BE FASTER STARTING THIS
WEEKEND.
WHAT SHOULD PEOPLE EXPECT?
>> WELL WHAT, WE THINK WE KNOW
IS THAT THE PAYMENTS ARE LOADING
FASTER.
A LOT OF ERRORS AREN'T EMERGING.
IN OTHER WORDS, THE SITE LOOKS
BETTER AT THE FRONT END.
THE ADMINISTRATION SAID THEY'VE
ALSO BEEN WORKING ON THE
BACKEND, THE REALLY COMPLICATED
ISSUES THAT MIGHT NOT BE
IMMEDIATELY APPARENT TO PEOPLE
BUT COULD CAUSE THEM TO HAVE
DIFFICULTY SIGNING UP FOR
COVERAGE.
THE ADMINISTRATION SAYS PEOPLE
WILL NOT ONLY BE ABLE TO
NAVIGATE THE SITE.
THEY'LL BE ABLE TO USE THE
SYSTEM AS A WHOLE, THE VAST
MAJORITY, TO SUCCESSFULLY ENROLL
IN COVERAGE OPINION WE WILL FIND
OUT DECEMBER 1 IS IT THAT IS THE
CASE.
>> Woodruff: LOUISE RADNOFSKY
OF THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL,"
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: IT COULD BE THE
BIGGEST FRAUD SCANDAL TO HIT THE
NAVY IN YEARS, INVOLVING
ALLEGATIONS THAT TOP COMMANDERS
RECEIVED  CASH, PROSTITUTES AND
OTHER FAVORS FOR INFLATED
CONTRACTS THAT COST THE PENTAGON
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: FOR DECADES, LEONARD
FRANCIS, KNOWN AS "FAT LEONARD"
FOR HIS IMPOSING GIRTH, HAS BEEN
WELL-CONNECTED IN TOP U.S. NAVY
CIRCLES, PERHAPS TOO CONNECTED.
HIS COMPANY, GLENN DEFENSE
MARINE, PROVIDED LOGISTICS
SUPPORT FOR U.S  WARSHIPS AT
PORTS IN EAST ASIA.
SINCE 2011, THE COMPANY HAS WON
MORE THAN $200 MILLION IN NAVY
CONTRACTS.
CONTRACTS THAT FEDERAL
INVESTIGATORS NOW CHARGE ARE AT
THE CENTER OF AN ELABORATE
CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY INVOLVING
BRIBERY, FRAUD AND MORE.
IN OCTOBER, "THE WASHINGTON
POST" REPORTED THAT FRANCIS
PLIED TOP NAVY COMMANDERS WITH
PROSTITUTES, CASH, LUXURY HOTEL
ROOMS...
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
...EVEN TICKETS TO A LADY GAGA
CONCERT IN THAILAND.
IN RETURN, OFFICIALS AT THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAY, FRANCIS
RECEIVED CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
ON SHIP DEPLOYMENTS.
HE ALSO ALLEGEDLY PRESSURED
COMMANDERS TO STEER SHIPS TO
PORTS WHERE HIS COMPANY WOULD
THEN OVERCHARGE FOR SERVICES
LIKE SEWAGE DISPOSAL AND
TUGBOATS.
IN SEPTEMBER, THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT ARRESTED FRANCIS AS
WELL AS A TOP AGENT IN THE NAVAL
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE
WHO HAD BEEN FEEDING HIM
INFORMATION AND TWO NAVY
COMMANDERS.
TWO ADMIRALS, INCLUDING THE
DIRECTOR OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE,
HAVE BEEN PLACED ON LEAVE AND
LOST THEIR SECURITY CLEARANCES.
FOR MORE ON THIS, I'M JOINED BY
CRAIG WHITLOCK.
HE BROKE THE STORY FOR "THE
WASHINGTON POST."
WELCOME BACK.
>> THANKS, JEFF.
>> Brown: FIRST DESCRIBE THE
ALLEGED SCHEMES HERE.
WHAT KIND OF CONTRACTS ARE WE
TALKING ABOUT?
>> IT'S REALLY THE NUTS AND
BOLTS OF KEEPING THE NAVY SHIPS
SERVICED AND SUPPLIED IN ASIA.
MOST OF THE NAVY SHIPS ARE IN
THE PACIFIC.
AND THIS COMPANY, GLENN DEFENSE
MARINE, THEY WOULD SUPPLY THE
SHIPS WHEN THEY WOULD COME TO
PORT, THEY WOULD GIVE THEM A
TUGBOAT, GANGWAY, SECURITY, FOOD
RESUPPLIES, THEY PUMPED OUT THE
BIBOF LGE AND SEWAGE.
ANYTHING THEY NEEDED WHEN THEY
CAME TO PORT THIS COMPANY WAS
SUPPOSED TO PROVIDE THOSE
SERVICES.
>> Brown: PRESUMABLY A
COMPETITIVE BUSINESS, AT LEAST
NORMALLY.
>> A VERY COMPETITIVE BUSINESS,
THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Brown: THE MAN AT THE HEART
OF THIS IS A-- HE'S GOT THE
NICKNAME-- BUT HE'S A COLORFUL
CHARACTER IN MANY WAYS.
>> HE IS A COLORFUL CHARACTER
AND AN EXTREMELY WELL-KNOWN IN
THE NAVY.
HIS NICKNAME IS "FAT LEONARD"
BECAUSE HE'S A LARGE GUY.
HIS LAWYER JOKINGLY REFERRED TO
HIM AS BIG LEARNED.
AND HIS COMPETITION REFERS TO
HIM AS LEONARD.
HE WOULD LAVISH GIFTS ON PEOPLE
IN PORT.
HE HAD A MANSION IN SING PORWITH
CHRISTMAS LICE EVERYWHERE.
HE WAS AT ALL SORTS OF PARTIES.
HE DEFINITELY WAS A CHARACTER.
>> Brown: I GATHER HE BRAGGED
ABOUT HIS CONNECTIONS TO TOP
NAVAL BRASS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
AND AS YOU SAW IN YOUR REPORT HE
HAD PICTURES WITH HIS ARMS
AROUND AND SHAKING HANDS AT
APPEARANCES.
IT WAS NOT UNCOMMON TO GO TO AN
EVENT LIKE THAT.
PEOPLE WOULD WARN HIM, HIS MOLES
INSIDE THE NAVY, THEY HAD SAY,
"YOU NEED TO WATCH OUT.
THEY'RE ON TO YOU ABOUT THIS OR
THAT AND ASKING QUESTIONS."
AND HE WOULD BRAG, "DON'T WORRY,
I GOT IT COVERED."
AND PROSECUTORS ALLEGE HE HAD
MOLES ENVELOPE THE NAVAL
INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE THAT WOULD
FEET FEEDHIM INFORMATION.
>> Brown: IN ADDITION TO THE
MOLES, WHAT ELSE ARE THEY--
>> CIEWZED OF IN TERMS OF
BRIBERY AND GETTING HIM
INFORMATION?
>> THEY WOULD STEER NAVY SHIPS
TO PORTS IN SOUTHEAST ASIA WHY
HE HAD A LEG UP, WHERE HE COULD
ALLEGEDLY CHARGE A LOT MORE FOR
BASIC SERVICES, OR FAKE IPVOICES
OR MAKE FRAUDULENT CLAIMS.
HE WOULD SAY, HEY, BABY, SEND
THAT AIRCRAFT CARRY TORE MY PORT
IN MALAYSIA" AND HE KNEW HOW TO
SUBMIT FAKE BILLS TO THE NAVY.
IF HE WENT TO OTHER MAJOR PORTS
IN SINGAPORE IT WAS A LITTLE
HARDER FOR HIM TO GET AWAY WITH
IT.
THE NAVY OFFICERS, HE WOULD LOAN
ON THEM TO STEER THE SHIPS TO
HIS PORTS, WHERE HE COULD
CONTROL THINGS AND OVERCHARGE
THE GOVERNMENT.
>> Brown: IN EXCHANGE, WE
HEARD SOME OF THE THINGS THEY
ARE ALLEGED TO HAVE RECEIVED.
>> THE BASIC TEMPTATIONS OF
LIFE.
HE WOULD PROVIDE PROSTITUTES,
ACCORDING TO THE GOVERNMENT.
HE WOULD PROVIDE CASH.
HE'D PROVIDE TRAVEL.
HE'D SET THEM UP IN LUXURY HOTEL
ROOMS THROUGHOUT ASIA.
IN ONE CASE HE GAVE LADY GAGA
TICKETS, "LION KING" TICKETS AND
EVEN TRAVEL FOR FAMILY MEMBERS
OF THESE NAVY OFFICERS.
HE KNEW HOW-- WHAT WOULD WORK
WITH THEM.
>> Brown: THE TWO ADMIRAL THEY
SAY MENTIONED HAVE BEEN PLACED
ON LEAVE.
WHAT IS THOUGHT TO BE THEIR
INVOLVEMENT?
IT'S BEFORE THEY WERE MADE
ADMIRALS; IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT'S RIGHT.
THESE ARE NOT JUST THREE-STAR AL
DIRECTOR OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE,
AND ONE OF HIS DEPUTIES WHO IS
ALSO IN NAVAL INTELLIGENCE.
THEY REPORT ACCUSED OF DOING
ANYTHING IN THEIR CURRENT JOBS
BUT THEY BOTH SERVED IN THE
PACIFIC AND THE NAVY SAID IT'S
SOME SORT OF PERSONAL MISCONDUCT
CONNECTED WITH THE
INVESTIGATION.
WE DON'T WHAT KIND OF PERSONAL
MISCONDUCT.
THAT HASN'T COME OUT YET.
BUT FOR THE NAVY TO SUSPEND OR
PUT ON LEAVE TWO ADMIRALS OF
THAT RANK AND THAT KIND OF
POSITION, IT'S A VERY SERIOUS
MATTER.
>> Brown: IS THERE SUPPOSED TO
BE SOME KIND OF OVERSIGHT OF
THESE CONTRACTS OR ARE THESE THE
VERY PEOPLE THAT ARE SUPPOSED TO
BE OVERSEEING THEM?
>> THERE IS SUPPOSED TO BE LOTS
OF OVERSIGHT.
THEY SAY COMPETITIVE BUSINESS.
THESE CONTRACT GOES OUT FOR BID.
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO BE PICKED
OVER, ALL THE COMPANIES' BIDS,
WHO HAS THE COMPARATIVE
ADVANTAGE, AND THAT'S WHAT THE
INVESTIGATORS ARE LOOKING AT IS
HOW DID LEONARD AND HIS COMPANY
GET THESE CONTRACT OVERS TIME
DESPITE SOME CLEAR PROBLEMS WITH
SOME OF THE SERVICES HE WAS
PROVIDING.
AND THE FACT THAT THEY HAD BEEN
UNDER INVESTIGATION FOR SOME
YEARS, AND YET THEY KEPT GETTING
MORE CONTRACTS.
>> Brown: THAT'S WHAT I WAS
WONDERING ABOUT.
THERE WERE ALL KINDS OF RED
FLAGS, APPARENTLY, ALONG THE
WAY.
THIS GUY HAS BEEN LOOKED AT FAIR
LONG TIME.
IS THE THINKING NOW THAT IT WAS
NOT TAKEN SERIOUSLY ENOUGH OR
THEY DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH
EVIDENCE?
>> THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
QUESTION.
THE NAVY SAYS THEY DIDN'T HAVE
ENOUGH EVIDENCE, AND THAT THEY
WERE THWARTED IN THEIR
INVESTIGATION BY THESE MOLES WHO
WOULD ENABLE HIM TO STAY A STEP
AHEAD.
BUT THERE WERE SO MANY RED
FLAGS.
IT DOES RAISE QUESTIONS, WHY
WOULD THEY KEEP GIVING HIM
CONTRACTS, ADDITIONAL CONTRACTS,
AS RECENTLY AS THIS PAST JULY
THEY GAVE HIM A NO-BID CONTRACT
FOR MORE PORT SERVICES BE EVEN
THOUGH HE WAS STILL UNDER
INVESTIGATION.
SO THAT'S DEFINITELY A VERY
MAJOR QUESTION IN THIS CASE.
>> Brown: I GUESS ANOTHER BIG
QUESTION IS WHETHER THIS IS A
VERY SPECIFIC TYPE OF EXAMPLE--
BAD EXAMPLE-- OR IS IT-- DOES IT
SIGNIFY SOME LARGER SYSTEMIC
PROBLEM THAT THE NAVY OR PERHAPS
THE REST OF THE MILITARY HAS?
>> WELL, I THINK THE MILITARY IN
GENERAL DOES HAVE A PROBLEM.
WE SEE THIS KIND OF CASE COME UP
NOT INFREQUENTLY WHERE CONTRACT
FRAUD, PEOPLE OVERCHARGE THE
GOVERNMENT.
IT'S A VERY CHUMMY BUSINESS WITH
RETIRED NAVY OR MILITARY
OFFICERS.
LEONARD HAD RETIRED NAVY
OFFICERS ON HIS PAYROLL.
AND SO I DON'T THINK THIS IS AN
ISOLATED CASE.
AND I THINK WE MAY SEE SOME MORE
INVESTIGATIONS INTO THIS KIND OF
BUSINESS WITH THE NAVY, NOT JUST
HIS COMPANY BUT OTHERS AS WELL.
>> Brown: AND LEONARD FRANCIS
HIMSELF REMAINS IN JAIL.
>> HE'S IN JAIL, FEDERAL PRISON
IN SAN DIEGO.
HE TRIED TO GET BOND AND THE
JUDGE SAID NO HE WAS TOO MUCH OF
A FLIGHT RISK.
>> Brown: BRIEFLY, WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT?
WHICH CASE COMES NEXT?
>> WE DON'T KNOW WHICH WOULD GO
TO TRIAL YET.
THEY'VE STILL BEEN SUSPENDING
AND CHARGING SO MANY, I THINK
THEY'RE STILL TRYING TO GET TO
THE BOTTOM OF IT AND SEE HOW FAR
IT GOES.
THE NAVY HAS BEEN VERY OPEN THAT
THEY EXPECT MORE OFFICERS TO BE
IMPLICATED, AND THIS IS NOT THE
END OF IT.
>> Brown: SO WE HAVE NOT SEEN
THE END OF THIS.
>> NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
>> Brown: CRAIG WHITLOCK OF
THE "WASHINGTON POST," THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANKS, JEFF.oodruff: SCHOOLE
ARE IMPLEMENTING NEW SHARED
STANDARDS IN MATH AND READING,
BUT WHAT ABOUT FOR THE ARTS?
ARE THOSE REQUIRED TO BE TAUGHT,
AS WELL?
THE "NEWSHOUR'S" SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR EDUCATION,
JOHN MERROW, HAS THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: MOST PUBLIC SCHOOLS
IN THE UNITED STATES OFFER SOME
SORT OF MUSIC INSTRUCTION.
BUT, ACCORDING TO A FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT REPORT, ABOUT FOUR
MILLION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
STUDENTS DO NOT GET INSTRUCTION
IN THE VISUAL ARTS.
>> NOT BY THE HAIR OF MY CHINNI,
CHINNI CHIN.
CHIN-CHIN.
>> NOT BY THE HAIR OF MY CHINNI,
>> Reporter: 96% OF PUBLIC
CHIN-CHIN.
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS DO NOT OFFER
>> Reporter: 96% OF PUBLIC
THEATRE OR DRAMA AND 97% DO NOT
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS DO NOT OFFER
OFFER DANCE.
THEATRE OR DRAMA AND 97% DO NOT
THESE GRIM NUMBERS CONTRADICT
OFFER DANCE.
WHAT MOST STATES SAY ABOUT THE
THESE GRIM NUMBERS CONTRADICT
ARTS.
WHAT MOST STATES SAY ABOUT THE
46 STATES REQUIRE THAT THE ARTS
ARTS.
BE TAUGHT IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL,
46 STATES REQUIRE THAT THE ARTS
INCLUDING NORTH CAROLINA, WHICH
BE TAUGHT IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL,
MANDATES THAT EVERY STUDENT
INCLUDING NORTH CAROLINA, WHICH
RECEIVE EQUAL ACCESS TO ART
MANDATES THAT EVERY STUDENT
INSTRUCTION.
RECEIVE EQUAL ACCESS TO ART
IT'S A LAW THAT DOES NOT SEEM TO
INSTRUCTION.
BE ENFORCED.
IT'S A LAW THAT DOES NOT SEEM TO
JONES COUNTY, IN RURAL NORTH
BE ENFORCED.
CAROLINA, SERVES 1,200 STUDENTS,
JONES COUNTY, IN RURAL NORTH
MOST FROM LOW INCOME FAMILIES.
CAROLINA, SERVES 1,200 STUDENTS,
WHILE ITS FOUR ELEMENTARY
MOST FROM LOW INCOME FAMILIES.
SCHOOLS DO OFFER MUSIC
WHILE ITS FOUR ELEMENTARY
INSTRUCTION ONCE A WEEK, NOT ONE
SCHOOLS DO OFFER MUSIC
OFFERS INSTRUCTION IN DANCE,
INSTRUCTION ONCE A WEEK, NOT ONE
THEATER OR ART.
OFFERS INSTRUCTION IN DANCE,
>> EVERY YEAR WE KIND OF JOKE
THEATER OR ART.
ABOUT IT AND WE ASK, "OH, ARE WE
>> EVERY YEAR WE KIND OF JOKE
GETTING AN ART TEACHER THIS
ABOUT IT AND WE ASK, "OH, ARE WE
YEAR?"
GETTING AN ART TEACHER THIS
I MEAN, I WAS HIRED INTO THIS
YEAR?"
COUNTY PROBABLY TEN YEARS AGO.
I MEAN, I WAS HIRED INTO THIS
AND I CANNOT REMEMBER HAVING AN
COUNTY PROBABLY TEN YEARS AGO.
ELEMENTARY ART TEACHER.
AND I CANNOT REMEMBER HAVING AN
>> Reporter: WITH NO ART TEACHER
ELEMENTARY ART TEACHER.
ON STAFF, PRINCIPAL JIMMI PARKER
>> Reporter: WITH NO ART TEACHER
OF MAYSVILLE ELEMENTARY HAS HAD
ON STAFF, PRINCIPAL JIMMI PARKER
TO RELY ON LOCAL TALENT.
OF MAYSVILLE ELEMENTARY HAS HAD
>> WE DO OUR BEST.
TO RELY ON LOCAL TALENT.
WE HAVE VOLUNTEERS COME IN.
>> WE DO OUR BEST.
ALL KINDS OF ARTISTS LIVE IN OUR
WE HAVE VOLUNTEERS COME IN.
AREA.
ALL KINDS OF ARTISTS LIVE IN OUR
>> Reporter: THESE SIXTH GRADERS
AREA.
REMEMBER WHEN A OFESPRSIONAL
>> Reporter: THESE SIXTH GRADERS
ARTIST CAME TO THEIR SCHOOL FOR
REMEMBER WHEN A OFESPRSIONAL
A MONTH.
ARTIST CAME TO THEIR SCHOOL FOR
>> I LIKED THE WORK WE DID WITH
A MONTH.
HER, WHEN WE DID THE SHADOWS
>> I LIKED THE WORK WE DID WITH
WITH THE TREES.
HER, WHEN WE DID THE SHADOWS
>> Reporter: UNFORTUNATELY, THAT
WITH THE TREES.
WAS THREE YEARS AGO, WHEN THESE
>> Reporter: UNFORTUNATELY, THAT
STUDENTS WERE IN THE THIRD
WAS THREE YEARS AGO, WHEN THESE
GRADE.
STUDENTS WERE IN THE THIRD
>> WOULD YOU LIKE TO HAVE MORE
GRADE.
ART?
>> WOULD YOU LIKE TO HAVE MORE
>> EVERYONE SAYS YES.
ART?
>> Reporter: TWO HOURS WEST OF
>> EVERYONE SAYS YES.
JONES COUNTY, THE PICTURE IS
>> Reporter: TWO HOURS WEST OF
VERY DIFFERENT.
JONES COUNTY, THE PICTURE IS
LIKE MAYSVILLE, BUGG ELEMENTARY
VERY DIFFERENT.
SCHOOL IN RALEIGH SERVES MOSTLY
LIKE MAYSVILLE, BUGG ELEMENTARY
LOW INCOME FAMILIES.
SCHOOL IN RALEIGH SERVES MOSTLY
BUT UNLIKE MAYSVILLE, BUGG HAS
LOW INCOME FAMILIES.
FOUR FULL-TIME, CERTIFIED ARTS
BUT UNLIKE MAYSVILLE, BUGG HAS
TEACHERS IN DANCE.
FOUR FULL-TIME, CERTIFIED ARTS
...MUSIC...
>> TIME TO WORK AND SLEEP AND
PLAY.
...THE VISUAL ARTS...
AND THEATRE.
>> ONCE UPON A TIME...
>> Reporter: I ASKED THESE FIFTH
GRADERS HOW MANY MINUTES OF THE
ARTS THEY HAVE IN A WEEK.
>> DURING THE WEEK, THE
CALCULATION WOULD BE...
>> UM, ABOUT NINE HOURS.
>> I'D SAY ABOUT 15 HOURS.
>> I WOULD SAY AROUND TEN HOURS
A WEEK.
>> OKAY.
SO WE'VE GOT SEVEN AND A HALF,
TEN, NINE, 15.
>> I LOVE THE IDEA THAT THE KIDS
COULDN'T FULLY ANSWER THAT.
>> SO SHE CALLED UP THE DOCTOR
AND THE DOCTOR SAID...
>> Reporter: MICHAEL ARMSTRONG
IS PRINCIPAL AT BUGG ELEMENTARY
>> THEY DEFINITELY HAVE 45
MINUTES A DAY WITH A TRUE,
TRAINED ARTS TEACHER.
AND THEN BECAUSE ALL OF OUR
STAFF ARE TRAINED IN THE ARTS
THAT WILL BLEED OVER INTO MORE
TIME.
>> I'M GOING TO TURN INTO THE
BEANSTALK NOW AND I WANT YOU TO
UNDERSTAND THE BEANSTALKS SIDE
OF THE STORY.
>> Reporter: FIRST GRADE TEACHER
MARIA EBY IS USING THE STORY OF
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK TO TEACH
DRAMA AND SCIENCE.
>> WE ARE STUDYING PLANTS AND
WHAT THEY NEED AND WHAT THEY
GIVE AND HOW THEY RELATE TO THE
WORLD.
WHAT ARE THREE THINGS THAT
PLANTS DO FOR US.
>> THEY GIVE US FOOD.
>> THEY GIVE US FOOD, LIKE
BEANS.
>> AND THEN THE DRAMA PART OF
IT, THEY HAD TO IMPROVISE AS
THAT CHARACTER.
>> YOU ARE THE OLD LADY THAT
GAVE THEM THE BEANS.
BUT THEN WHY DID YOU LET HIM IN
THE CASTLE?
>> BECAUSE...
>> Reporter: WHAT'S THE GOAL, DO
KIDS LEARN MORE?
>> WELL, CHILDREN ALL LEARN IN
DIFFERENT WAYS AND ITS OUR JOB
TO MAKE SURE WERE PRESENTING
THINGS IN DIFFERENT WAYS.
>> Reporter: BUT NOBODY SAID
DRESS UP LIKE A BEANSTALK.
>> NOBODY MADE ME DO THAT, NO.
THAT WAS MY OWN FREE WILL.
>> PULL OUT YOUR iPADS WITH
YOUR PORTFOLIOS, OKAY?
>> Reporter: THIS SCHOOL FEELS
RICH.
>> YEAH.
>> Reporter: ARE YOU?
>> NOT AT ALL.
THERE'S TWO PARTS TO THAT.
THE MONEY IS ONE PART, MINDSET
IS ANOTHER WHOLE THING.
SO IF YOU REALLY BELIEVE THAT
THE ARTS ARE OF POWER, THAT
ALONE, CAN HAVE AN IMPACT.
AND IF YOU DON'T HAVE THAT
MINDSET, THEN I DON'T THINK
THERE'S ENOUGH MONEY IN THE
WORLD TO PAY FOR A STRONG ENOUGH
ARTS PROGRAM.
>> Reporter: BUT MONEY MAKES A
DIFFERENCE.
BUGG ELEMENTARY IS WHAT'S KNOWN
AS A "MAGNET" SCHOOL.
MAGNET SCHOOLS RECEIVE
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES TO ATTRACT
A DIVERSE STUDENT BODY.
BUGG GETS AN EXTRA $406 PER
CHILD, NEARLY $250,000 A YEAR.
PRINCIPAL ARMSTRONG SPENDS MUCH
OF THAT MONEY ON THE ARTS, AND
SAYS HE HAS WATCHED HIS STUDENTS
THRIVE.
>> STUDENTS THAT HAVE BEEN IN
THIS PROGRAM FROM KINDERGARTEN
TO FIFTH GRADE HAVE A HIGHER
SELF-CONFIDENCE, HAVE A HIGHER
UNDERSTANDING OF HOW THEY LEARN,
AND ARE ACTUALLY MAKING HIGHER
TEST SCORES.
>> Reporter: IN CONTRAST,
INSTEAD OF THE ARTS, JONES
COUNTY HAS FOCUSED ITS EFFORTS
ON IMPROVING MATH AND READING
INTRUCSTION.
OVER THE PAST FEW YEARS, BOTH
SCHOOLS HAVE IMPROVED, ALTHOUGH
MAYSVILLE ELEMENTARY HAS
OUTPERFORMED BUGG ON MOST STATE
TESTS.
THIS YEAR THE MINDSET IN JONES
COUNTY SEEMS TO BE CHANGING.
THE DISTRICT HIRED AN ELEMENTARY
ART TEACHER.
>> YOU SEE ALL THE DIFFERENT
KIND OF CORAL.
>> Reporter: AT MAYSVILLE
ELEMENTARY, CINDY ODANIEL
TEACHES SEVEN ART CLASSES, BACK
TO BACK, WITH JUST ONE BREAK AND
NO TIME  BETWEEN CLASSES TO SET
UP, OR CLEAN UP.
I WAS LOOKING AT YOUR SCHEDULE
ON THE WALL, LOOKS LIKE A PRETTY
HECTIC DAY
>> WE MOVE QUICKLY BUT THE 45
MINUTES IS A BETTER TIME SLOT TO
GET SOMETHING ACCOMPLISHED.
I HAVE OTHER SCHOOLS THAT ITS 30
MINUTES SO IT'S HURRY UP AND
START, HURRY UP AND FINISH.
>> HEY, YOU GUYS, LISTEN UP.
WE'RE RUNNING OUT OF TIME.
>> Reporter: ONE OF HER CLASSES
IS ACTUALLY TWO KINDERGARTEN
CLASSES COMBINED.
>> OH, DANIEL.
>> IT IS ORGANIZED CHAOS AND ITS
TOUGH TO GET AROUND TO ALL THE
STUDENTS IN A REGULAR CLASS SIZE
IN 45 MINUTES.
>> Reporter: AND MAYSVILLE IS
NOT HER ONLY SCHOOL.
HOW MANY SCHOOLS DO YOU TEACH
IN?
>> FOUR.
>> Reporter: HOW MANY KIDS DO
YOU WORK WITH?
>> I HAVEN'T SLOWED DOWN LONG
ENOUGH TO FIGURE IT OUT.
>> Reporter: NATIONWIDE, NEARLY
HALF OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL ART
TEACHERS WORK IN MORE THAN ONE
SCHOOL.
I ASKED THESE STUDENTS AT BUGG
HOW THEY'D FEEL ABOUT HAVING
ONLY 45 MINUTES OF ART A WEEK.
>> I GUESS IF I'D NEVER BEEN IN
THIS SCHOOL TO START WITH, I
WOULD THINK IT'S NORMAL.
BUT NOW THAT I'M HERE, I REALIZE
IF I WERE TO GO TO ANOTHER
SCHOOL AND IT ONLY HAS 45
MINUTES OF ART, I WOULD NOT FEEL
LIKE IT'S A REAL SCHOOL.
>> I WOULD LOVE FOR IT TO BE
EVERY OTR DAHEY.
I WOULD LIKE THEM TO HAVE MORE
TIME TO THINK, MORE TIME TO
ABSORB, TO ASSESS INFORMATION,
INSTEAD OF HURRY UP, HURRY UP,
CLEAN UP, TIME IS RUNNING OUT.
>> Reporter: DO THE KIDS AT YOUR
SCHOOL GET ENOUGH ART?
>> NO.
THEY STILL DON'T GET ENOUGH ART.
>> Reporter: HOW MUCH IS ENOUGH?
>> I GUESS, ENOUGH WOULD BE WHEN
THE KIDS ARE SATISFIED.
WHEN WE ASK THEM, "DO YOU GET
ENOUGH ART?"
AND THEY CAN SAY, "YES, I FEEL
LIKE I HAVE ART IN EVERYTHING I
DO EVERY DAY."
IT MIGHT NOT EVER REACH THAT
POINT.
BUT WHEN THEY TELL US THEY'RE
GETTING ART, THAT WILL BE
ENOUGH.
>> Reporter: YOU'RE A WAYS FROM
THERE.
>> A LONG WAYS FROM THERE.
A LONG WAYS.
>> Reporter: IN 2014, A
COALITION OF ARTS ORGANIZATIONS
LL RWIELEASE NEW STANDARDS FOR
THE ARTS.
BUT IT WILL BE UP TO EACH STATE
TO DECIDE WHETHER TO ADOPT AND
ENFORCE THEM.
>> Woodruff: THE DEVASTATING
TYPHOON THAT STRUCK THE
PHILIPPINES ILLUSTRATED THE
VULNERABILITY OF ISLAND NATIONS
TO EXTREME WEATHER AND ADDED A
SPARK TO THE INTERNATIONAL
DEBATE ALREADY UNDERWAY OVER WHO
BEARS THE COSTS FROM CLIMATE
CHANGE.
>> CLIMATE IS A GLOBAL ISSUE,
GLOBAL PROBLEM AND GLOBAL
OPPORTUNITY AT THE SAME TIME.
>> Wooduff: THE UNITED NATIONS
12-DAY CONFERENCE ON CLIMATE
CHANGE BEGAN EARLIER THIS MONTH
WITH AN AUDACIOUS GOAL:
A NEW AGREEMENT TO CUT CLIMATE-
ALTERING GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS.
THEY MET WITH RENEWED PURPOSE:
TYPHOON HAIYAN HAD JUST SLAMMED
INTO THE PHILIPPINES WITH 195-
MPH WINDS.
AMONG THE STRONGEST STORMS EVER
RECORDED, IT CAUSED MASSIVE
FLOODING, WIDESPREAD DESTRUCTION
AND TOOK AT LEAST 5,200 LIVES.
ALTHOUGH SCIENTISTS HAVE NOT
POINTED TO GLOBAL WARMING AS THE
DIRECT CAUSE FOR MASSIVE
SUPERSTORMS.
THEY CAUTION THAT GREENHOUSE
GAS-FUELED CLIMATE CHANGE COULD
BRING ABOUT EXTREME WEATHER.
A DELEGATE FROM THE PHILIPPINES
WENT ON HUNGER STRIKE TO DEMAND
AN AMBITIOUS DEAL.
>> WE STAND TOGETHER ON THIS
URGENT CALL FOR CLIMATE ACTION.
AND SOLIDARITY AMONG THE MOST
VULNERABLE PEOPLES ON EARTH.
>> Wooduff: LAST WEEK IN POLAND,
TALKS FOCUSED NOT ONLY ON THE
GLOBAL EFFECTS, BUT ON A SHARED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR CURBING
EMISSIONS.
>> EVERY SINGLE COUNTRY, SMALL
OR LARGE, EVERY SINGLE SECTOR,
EVERY SINGLE CITY, HAS TO
CTRIBONUTE BECAUSE OTHERWISE
WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
CHANGE THE TRAJECTORY OF
GREENHOUSE GASES.
>> Wooduff: BUT THE GREAT
DISPARITY BETWEEN THE EMISSIONS
PRODUCED BY THE INDUSTRIALIZED,
LEADING ECONOMIES OF THE WORLD
AND DEVELOPING NATIONS HUNG OVER
THE TALKS.
HOW TO FINANCE ASSISTANCE FOR
DEVELOPING NATIONS TO BUILD
CLEANER-EMITTING INDUSTRY WAS A
MAJOR ISSUE, AS WERE DEMANDS FOR
COMPENSATION BY NATIONS ALREADY
SUFFERING EFFECTS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE.
A DELEGATE LOOKED AT THAT
PROPOSAL SKEPTICALLY:
>> WE CANNOT HAVE A SYSTEM WHERE
THERE WILL BE AUTOMATIC
COMPENSATION WHENEVER SEVERE
WEATHER EVENTS ARE HAPPENING ONE
PLACE OR OTHER AROUND THE
PLANET.
YOU CAN UNDERSTAND WHY THAT IS
NOT FEASIBLE.
>> Wooduff: THE TALKS WERE
FRACTIOUS: ENVIRONMENTAL
ACTIVISTS STAGED A WALK OUT,
DISAPPOINTED AT WHAT THEY SAW AS
LACK OF PROGRESS.
MARATHON NEGOTIATIONS ENDED
EARLY SUNDAY, POINTING TOWARDS A
MAKE-OR-BREAK AGREEMENT IN 2015.
NOW I'M JOINED BY TWO PEOPLE WHO
ATENDED THE U.N. CLIMATE
CONFERENCE IN WARSAW.
BRANDON WOO IS A SENIOR POLICY
ANALYST AT ACTION AID U.S.A., AN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ORGANIZATION.
AND ROBERT STABBENS IS A
PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS AND
GOVERNMENT, AND DIRECTOR OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL ECONOMICS PROGRAM
AT HARVARD UNIVERSITY.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
I WANT TO ASK BOTH OF YOU JUST
IN A SENTENCE WHY WAS THIS
CONFERENCE HELD?
AND I'LL START WITH YOU, ROBERT
STABEPS, WHAT QUESTION OR
QUESTIONS WAS IT SUPPOSED TO
RESOLVE?
>> THE BASIC QUESTION THAT
NEEDED TO BE IN WARSAW WAS
WHETHER OR NOT THE COUNTRIES OF
THE WORLD COULD REMAIN ON THE
TRACK THAT WAS STARTED TWO YEARS
AGO AT A SIMILAR CONFERENCE IN
DURBIN TO BUILD UP TO PARIS TWO
YEARS FROM NOW, WHERE A FINAL
AGREEMENT NEEDS TO BE REACHED,
WHICH IS ESSENTIALLY THE
POST-KYOTO INTERNATIONAL CLIMATE
CHANGE AGREEMENT.
IF THAT SOUNDS LIKE THE GOAL WAS
MAINLY PROCEDURAL, YOU'RE RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: BRANDON WOO, HOW
WOULD YOU PUT IT IN A SENTENCE?
WHAT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE RESOLVE
HERE?
>> I AGREE WITH THAT.
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO BE ON A TRACK
TO A NEW GLOBAL REGIME.
THERE ALSO NEEDED TO BE MORE
CONCRETE THINGS ON THE TABLE.
THERE NEEDED TO BE MORE CLARITY
ON WHAT IS CALLED CLIMATE
FINANCE, MONEY FOR DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES TO HELP DEAL WITH THE
INTOOCTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE AND
THEIR OWN EMISSIONS.
AND THERE NEEDED TO BE A
MECHANISM CREATED AROUND WHAT'S
CALLED LOSS AND DAMAGE, WHICH IS
HOW COUNTRIES DEAL WITH IMPACTS
AFTER THEY HAPPEN, FOR EXAMPLE,
HOW THE PHILIPPINES CAN DEAL
WITH TYPHOON HAIYAN, AFTER THAT
HAPPENED.
>> Woodruff: BEFORE WE TALK
ABOUT WHAT WENT WRONG-- AND
THERE WERE SOME PROBLEMS--
ROBERT STAVINS, WHAT WAS
ACCOMPLISHED?
WAS ANYTHING ACCOMPLISHED AT
THIS CONFERENCE?
>> WELL, ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WAS ACCOMPLISHED -- AND I KNOW
THIS WILL SOUND MILD OR
TRIVIAL-- IS THAT NO HARM WAS
DONE.
THAT IS, THE COUNTRIES OF THE
WORLD STAYED ON TRACK TO PARIS
TO, PUT TOGETHER A NEW CLIMATE
AGREEMENT, ONE THAT WILL HAVE A
SUBSTANTIALLY LARGER FOUNDATION
IN TERMS OF THE NUMBER OF
PARTICIPATING COUNTRIES THAN
WHAT WE CURRENTLY HAVE UNDER THE
KYOTO REGIME.
THAT MAY NOT SOUND LIKE MUCH BUT
IN THE WORLD OF ANNUAL CLIMATE
NEGOTIATIONS THAT ARE
ACCEPTIONALLY CHALLENGING THAT'S
WHAT SUCCESS LOOKS LIKE.
>> Woodruff: BRANDON WU, WOULD
YOU AGREE THAT WAS ONE POSITIVE
THAT CAME OUT OF THIS?
>> I THINK THAT'S ONE POSITIVE.
THAT'S THE POLITICAL REALITY.
THE POLITICAL REALITY IS THE
NEGOTIATIONS ARE INCREDIBLY
CHALLENGING.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO GET
COUNTRIES TO AGREE TO, SAY,
AMBITIOUS TARGETS TO REDUCE
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS.
BUT THERE IS A SCIENTIFIC
REALITY THAT WE'RE ON TRACK FOR
A WORLD THAT IS GOING TO BE
MASSIVELY WARMER THAN IT WAS
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL ERA, AND
WE KNOW-- WE AT LEAST HAVE SOME
SENSE OF HOW CATASTROPHIC SOME
OF THE IMPACTS OF THAT MIGHT BE.
SO WE HAVE A SCIENTIFIC REALITY
WHERE WE NEED TO DEAL WITH THIS
MEMBER URGENTLY, AND THEN WE
HAVE A POLITICAL REALITY WHERE
WE CAN'T AND WE NEED TO SHIFT
THAT POLITICAL REALITY.
>> Woodruff: I HEAR YOU.
SO LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
SPECIFICS, ROBERT STAVINS OF
WHAT DIDN'T HAPPEN HERE.
FOR ONE THING, THERE WAS A
MASSIVE WALKOUT.
SOME 800 PARTICIPANTS JUST
WALKED OUT OF THE MEETINGS ONE
DAY.
WHAT WAS THE MAIN DISAGREEMENT
THERE OVER?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE WAS
RAMPANT IT DISAPPOINTMENT,
PARTICULARLY FROM MEMBERS FROM
CIVIL SOCIETY, FROM ACTIVIST
GROUPS, AND I STULLY UNDERSTAND
THAT DISAPPOINTMENT.
THE WAY I SEE IT IS THE CURRENT
STRUCTURE WE HAVE BEEN USING IN
THE KYOTO PROTOCOL, IS
EQUIVALENT-- IF YOU ALLOW ME TO
USE A METAPHOR-- IT'S EQUIVALENT
TO BUILDING A 70-STORY
SKYSCRAPER ON TOP OF A
FOUNDATION THAT IS 10 FEET BY 10
FEET.
YOU MIGHT BE ABLE TO BUILD THE
FIRST FLOOR, YOU MIGHT EVEN
BUILD THE SECOND FLOOR, BUT I
YOU WILL NOT GET THE AMBITION
REQUIRED.
THE KYOTO PROTOCOL, WHICH
INCLUDES A VERY LIMITED SET OF
COUNTRIES, PART OF WHAT THE
INDUSTRIALED WORLD IS, IT
ACCOUNTS FOR ONLY 14% OF GLOBAL
EMISSIONS.
WHAT'S HAPPENING NOW IS THAT THE
COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD ARE IT
TRYING TO ESTABLISH A LARGER
FOUNDATION THAT INCLUDES ALL
COUNTRIES -- IMPORTANTLILY, THE
KEY, LARGE, GROWING UPON
COUNTRIES PLUS THE RICH
COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD IN A
LARGER FOUNDATION TO BUILD A
MEANINGFUL AGREEMENT TO REALLY
ADDRESS THIS CRUCIAL PROBLEM.
I THINK ACTIVISTS AND MANY
MEMBERS OF CIVIL SOCIETY LOOK AT
THAT AND SAY, WAIT, WE HAVE ONE
FLOOR BUILT, AND NOW THEY'RE
GOING BACK TO BUILDING THE
FOUNDATION, BUT I THINK THAT WAS
ESSENTIAL.
>> Woodruff: BRANDON WU, YOU
WERE PART OF THE THIS WALKOUT.
YOU SUPPORTED THE IDEA.
WHAT ABOUT THE QUESTION
MR. STAVINS JUST RAISED, THE
IDEA IT WAS ORIGINALLY A SMALL
NUMBER OF DEVELOPED COUNTRY
BEARING MOST OF THE
RESPONSIBILITY, BUT NOW THE
WORLD IS CHANGING.
THERE'S GROWTH IN A LOT OF
COUNTRIES THAT WERE PREVIOUSLY
CONSIDERED DEVELOPING AND NEEDY.
AND THAT THE BALANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY NEEDS TO SHIFT.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
HOWEVER, THE DEVIL'S IN THE
DETAILS.
I WOULD AGREE THAT ALL COUNTRIES
HAVE TO DO THEIR FAIR SHARE TO
DEAL WITH THE GLOBAL PROBLEM OF
CLIMATE CHANGE, BUT HOW YOU
DEFINE "FAIR SHARE" EXACTLY IS
WHERE WE RUN INTO DISAGREEMENTS.
AND JUST TO RAISE THE
OPPOSITIONAL POINTS ABOUT THE
WORLD IS CHANGING, YOU KNOW,
THERE ARE SOME COUNTRIES WE
CONSIDERED POOR THAT ARE NO
LONGER SO POOR.
EVEN NOW, IF WE LOOK AT THE
DEVELOPED WORLD-- SO THE U.S.,
OTHER INDUSTRIALIZED COUNTRIES
CHILDREN IS LESS THAN 20% OF THE
POPULATION-- THOSE COUNTRIES
RESPONSIBLE FOR OVER 70% OF THE
GREENHOUSE GASES THAT ARE IN THE
EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE, AND THESE
ARE COUNTRIES, THEREFORE, THAT
HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO DEAL
WITH THIS PROBLEM.
WHEREAS, COUNTRIES LIKE THE
PHILIPPINES, BANGLADESH, PEOPLE
IN THOSE COUNTRIES HAVE VERY
LITTLE TO DO WITH THE CLIMATE
CRISIS, AND YET THEY'RE THE
PEOPLE MOST VULNERABLE TOTS
IMPACTS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT YOU,
MR. STAVINS, CHINA, ISRAEL, AND
BRAZIL ARE GROWING FAST BUT IT
IS THE FAR-ALONG DEVELOPED
COUNTRIES THAT HAVE CONTRIBUTED
PRINCIPALLY TO THE POLLUTION AND
EMISSIONS THAT ARE IN THE
ATMOSPHERE.
>> SO WE COULD EARTH LOOK AT THE
PROBLEM BY LOOK BACKWARPDS OR
LOOK AT THE PROBLEM BY LOOKING
FORWARDS.
IF WE LOOK BACKWARDST PROBLEM,
EMISSIONS IN THE ATMOSPHERE, AS
MR. WU POINTS OUT CORRECTLY, HAS
COME FROM WHAT THE INDUSTRIAL
IDES WORLD.
ALTHOUGH THE UNITED STATES IS
THE LEADENER CUMULATIVE
EMISSIONES TO THE ATMOSPHERE,
CHINA IS GOING TO SURPASS THE
UNITED STATES, AS IT ALREADY
HAS, OF COURSE, IN ANNUAL
EMISSIONS, IS GOING TO PASS THE
UNITED STATES IN CUMULATIVE
EMISSIONS, DEPENDING ON THE
RATES OF ECONOMIC GROWTH OF THE
TWO COUNTRIES, SOMEWHERE IN A
DECADE OR MAYBE TWO DECADES.
IF WE'RE LOOK FORWARD-- WHICH I
THINK WE NEED TO DO IF WE WANT
TO REDUCE EMISSIONS, THEN IT'S A
DIFFERENT PICTURE.
IF THE O.E.C.D., IF THOSE
COUNTRIES UPON TO CUT THEIR
THEIR EMISSIONS NOT BY 20% OR
50% OR 80%, BY 100%, COMPLETELY
ELIMINATE THEIR EMISSIONS, NEVER
THE LESS THE THE NEXT YEAR OR
THE YEAR AFTER THAT WORLDWIDE
EMISSIONS WILL INCREASE BECAUSE
62% OF WORLDWIDE EMISSIONS ARE
NOW COMING FROM COUNTRIES
OUTSIDE THE EXISTING AGREEMENT
GL GIVEN THAT AND IN LESS THAN A
MINUTE, BRANDON WU.
HOW DO YOU BRIDGE THE GAP?
YOU SAID THE DEVIL IS IN THE
DETAILS.
HOW DO YOU BRIDGE THE GAP GIVEN
THE LACK OF PROGRESS AT A
MEETING LIKE THE WAN IN WARSAW.
>> THERE'S A GAP IN TRUST.
I AGREE, COUNTRIES LIKE CHINA
AND INDIA, THEY WILL NEED TO DO
SOMETHING IN THE FUTURE TO
REDUCE EMISSIONS.
IT'S NOT GOING TO WORK IF ONLY
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES DO THIS.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES AGREED TO
REDUCE EMISSIONS DECADES AGO AND
WHAT WE'VE SEEN FROM THEM HAS
BEEN A LACK OF ACTION.
THEY HAVE NOT REDUCED EMISSIONS
TO THE EXTENT THEY NEED TO.
SO DEVELOPING COUNTRIES HAVE
VERY LITTLE REASON TO TRUST IF
THEY MOVE FORWARD ON THEIR
ACTIONS TO REDUCE CLIMATE CHANGE
IMPACTS, THAT DEVELOPED
COUNTRIES WILL FOLLOW ALONG.
THEY'RE WAITING FOR OTHER
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES TO TAKE THE
LEAD, AS THEY ARE I LEGALLY
OBLIGATED TO IN THE U.N.
>> OF.
>> Woodruff: WE HIGH PRESSURE
YOU BOTH.
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, OUR
THANKSGIVING WEEK FOOD SERIES
CONTINUES WITH A LOOK AT A
GLOBAL COMPETITION BY ARCHITECTS
AND ENGINEERS, DESIGNED TO BE A
FRESH TWIST ON THE TYPICAL
HOLIDAY FOOD DRIVE.
JEFFREY BROWN IS BACK WITH THAT.
>> Brown: PORK AND BEANS, SWEET
CORN, TOMATO SAUCE AND TUNA
FISH.
MIX THEM TOGETHER AND WHAT DO
YOU GET?
WELL, IF YOU'RE IN NORFOLK,
VIRGINIA, YOU GET A 12-FOOT
ARCHED BRIDGE.
ELSEWHERE, SIMILAR INGREDIENTS
HAVE COOKED UP A FOOTBALL ON THE
20-YARD LINE.
A SEA CREATURE STUCK IN THE
SAND.
VIDEO GAMES GONE WILD.
EVEN A BEATING HEART.
THIS IS CAN-STRUCTION, AN ANNUAL
COMPETITION DATING BACK TO 1992
AND NOW HELD IN MORE THAN 150
CITIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
WHERE ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS AND
DESIGNERS FACE OFF TO BUILD THE
MOST ELABORATE STRUCTURES OUT OF
FULL CANNED GOODS ALL FOR A GOOD
CAUSE.
THE RULES ARE BASIC.
THE STATUES MUST BE SELF-
SUPPORTING FORMED ALMOST
ENTIRELY OF CANS AND COMPLETED
IN JUST SIX HOURS.
RIBBONS GO FOR STRUCTURAL
INGENUITY, BEST USE OF LABELS,
AND POTENTIAL TO MAKE A
NUTRITIOUS MEAL, AMONG OTHERS.
AFTER A FEW DAYS IN THE
SPOTLIGHT, THE EDIBLE BUILDING
BANKS.
MARK HINCKLEY HAS BEEN
ORGANIZING THE COMPETITION IN
NORFOLK FOR THE PAST 17 YEARS
>> ARCHITECTS BY NATURE LIKE TO
COMPETE AGAINST EACH OTHER.
THERE'S ALWAYS A LOT OF
ARCHITECTS AND ENGINEERS THAT
ARE GOING AFTER THE SAME
PROJECTS.
AND IT'S NICE TO HAVE THOSE
BRAGGING RIGHTS WHEN YOU CAN
BEAT OUT YOUR COMPETITION,
ESPECIALLY IF YOU'RE A SMALLER
FIRM GOING UP AGAINST THE MORE
GOLIATH FIRMS THAT ARE IN THE
AREA.
>> Brown: BUT WHAT OCCASIONALLY
LOOKS LIKE CHILD'S PLAY, HAS A
VERY SERIOUS PURPOSE.
ORGANIZERS HOPE THESE
CANSTRUCTIONS WILL RAISE A
LITTLE MORE AWARENESS ABOUT
HUNGER IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES
THROUGHOUT THE GLOBE AND BRING
IN FAR MORE DONATIONS THAN THE
TYPICAL FOOD DRIVE.
IT USUALLY TAKES BETWEEN 5,000
TO 10,000 CANS TO BUILD A STATUE
THIS BIG AND THAT TRANSLATES TO
30,000 TO 90,000 POUNDS OF
DONATED FOOD EACH YEAR IN
NORFOLK.
THE WORLDWIDE TOTAL FROM
CANSTRUCTION EVENTS IN 2012
ALONE CLOCKED IN AT 3.4 MILLION
POUNDS.
AND THE STATUES JUST KEEP
GETTING BIGGER.
DISNEY BROKE THE GUINNESS WORLD
RECORD FOR LARGEST CANSTRUCTION
STATUE TO DATE IN 2010.
JUST TO BE PLOWED UNDER BY JOHN
DEERE'S CREATION IN CHICAGO A
YEAR LATER, BUILT WITH MORE THAN
300,000 CANS.
>> WE'VE GOTTEN FAR MORE THAN WE
HAD TO.
>> Brown: BUT THESE, OF COURSE,
ONLY BEGIN TO ADDRESS THE NEEDS
OF SO MANY STRUGGLING IN A
DIFFICULT ECONOMY.
AT THE FOODBANK OF SOUTHEASTERN
VIRGINIA, C.E.O. JOANNE BATSON
SAYS THE HAUL FROM THIS YEAR'S
CANSTRUCTION WILL BE GONE IN A
FEW DAYS.
AS SOON AS THEY COME IN, WE'LL
GET THEM OUT.
WE DEAL WITH, AT THIS FACILITY,
OVER A MILLION POUNDS OF FOOD
EVERY MONTH, SO IT'S IN AND IT'S
OUT.
>> Brown: BATSON SAID THAT THE
CITY OF NORFOLK AND THE WIDER
AREA, KNOWN AS HAMPTON ROADS,
WERE ROCKED HARD BY THE ECONOMIC
DOWNTURN AND THE GOVERNMENT
CUTBACKS THAT FOLLOWED.
AND SHE SAID THE TREND HAS
DEEPENED IN RECENT WEEKS AFTER
MANY FAMILIES SAW A REDUCTION IN
THEIR FOOD STAMP DOLLARS.
>> WE'VE SEEN, JUST IN THE
65% INCREASE SINCE 2008 IN THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE THAT NEED OUR
HELP, AND MOST RECENTLY, WE'VE
SEEN 40% OF THE PEOPLE THAT ARE
COMING TO US NOW, AT THIS ONE
LOCATION, OVER THE PAST MONTH,
ARE NEW PEOPLE.
THEY'VE NEVER BEEN TO THE FOOD
BANK BEFORE.
>> Brown: DEANA OGBE  IS ONE OF
THOSE OUT OF WORK AND DOWN ON
HER LUCK.
SHE HAD ALMOST GIVEN UP ON THE
IDEA OF FIXING A THANKSGIVING
MEAL THIS YEAR FOR THE TEN-YEAR-
OLD GRANDDAUGHTER SHE'S RAISING.
>> WE ARE A FAMILY OF TWO AND
WE'RE ONLY GETTING $63 NOW.
THERE'S NO WAY TO GET
THANKSGIVING DINNER WITH THAT.
>> Brown: THEN OGBE HEARD ABOUT
A LOCAL CHURCH GIVING AWAY
THANKSGIVING MEAL KITS,
INCLUDING CANS FROM THE FOOD
BANK.
>> IT JU MEASTNS THE WORLD THAT
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A TURKEY ON
OUR TABLE FOR THANKSGIVING AND
WE'LL BE TOGETHER.
>> Brown: STORIES LIKE THAT
REPRESENT THE LARGER, SERIOUS
GOALS OF CANSTRUCTION.
EVEN IF THE WAY TO GET THERE IS
A BIT ADVENTURESOME, EVEN RISKY,
GETTING CANS OF TUNA TO DO
SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
THE ARCHED BRIDGE BY A TEAM OF
STUDENTS FROM TIDEWATER
COMMUNITY COLLEGE CONTAINS OVER
11,000 POUNDS OF FOOD.
BUILDING IT IN JUST SIX HOURS
LEFT EVERYONE ON EDGE
>> THE MOST MINIMUM MISTAKE CAN
HAVE THE BIGGEST IMPACT ON IT.
TOWARDS THE LAST PART, WE
MISCALCULATED BY ABOUT A HALF AN
INCH.
AND IT KEPT US STRUGGLING FOR A
GOOD 20 MINUTES TO GET IT
FINISHED.
>> AND THERE WAS A LOT OF
PEOPLE-- NOT ONLY US, BUT OTHER
COMPETITORS ALL STANDING AROUND
WATCHING US.
IT WAS VERY NERVOUS.
>> Brown: IN LINE WITH THE
RULES, THE ARCH IS BUILT MOSTLY
OF CANS-- 13,000 OF THEM-- BUT
IT ALSO CONTAINS SOME SMALL
WOODEN WEDGES TO HELP THE TUNA
CANS FORM THE ARCH AND CARDBOARD
TO HELP STABILIZE THE LAYERS.
NO PERMANENT ADHESIVES ARE
ALLOWED, MAKING FOR AN UNEASY
COUPLE OF MINUTES WHEN THE TEAM
REMOVED THE CENTRAL WOODEN
SUPPORT KNOWN AS THE TEMPLATE.
>> THE MOMENT THAT THAT TEMPLATE
COMES DOWN, AND YOU CAN ACTUALLY
SEE THE LIGHT FROM THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE ARCH, THAT'S THE
MOMENT OF, YES, IT WORKS.
>> Brown: BIN THE END, THE
TIDEWATER STUDENTS CAME OUT ON
TOP FOR STRUCTURAL INGENUITY.
FACEBLOCK TOOK HOME THE AWARD
FOR JUROR'S FAVORITE.
IMAGES OF BOTH OF THESE
CREATIONS WILL BE SENT TO THE
NEXLEVT EL, WHERE THE TWO-CAN
COMPETE FOR A SLICE OF NATIONAL
ACTION AND MUCH BIGGER GLORY AT
THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF
ARCHITECTS CONVENTION NEXT YEAR.
>> Ifill: ON ART BEAT YOU CAN
TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT SOME OF
THE CANSTRUCTIONS, AND VOTE FOR
YOUR FAVORITE.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
A WINTRY MIX OF SNOW, SLEET AND
RAIN SNARLED THANKSGIVING
HOLIDAY TRAVEL FOR MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS ON THE BUSIEST TRAVEL
DAY OF THE YEAR.
AND THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
ANNOUNCED ANOTHER DELAY IN THE
ROLL OUT OF THE HEALTH CARE LAW.
IT PUSHED BACK THE LAUNCH OF AN
ONLINE SITE FOR SMALL BUSINESSES
SHOPPING THE HEALTH INSURANCE
MARKETPLACE BY A YEAR.
>> Ifill: ON THE "NEWSHOUR"
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, WE HAVE
DETAILS ON HOW YOU CAN WATCH A
THANKSGIVING DAY SHOWDOWN
BETWEEN THE SUN AND A TINY COMET
THAT COULD LAST FOR THE NEXT FEW
WEEKS.
AND IN THE INTEREST OF HOLIDAY
CIVILITY, MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS HAVE ADVICE ON HOW TO
AVOID CONFLICT AT THE
THANKSGIVING DAY DINNER TABLE.
MARK'S BEST TIP?
DON'T TALK POLITICS, TALK
FOOTBALL.
OUR ONLINE TEAM BUILT A BINGO
BOARD THAT YOU CAN USE TO FOLLOW
ALL THE GAMES ON THURSDAY.
FIND IT ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL HAVE THREE
SPECIAL THANKSGIVING STORIES.
A CONVERSATION WITH CHEF, AUTHOR
AND ACTIVIST ALICE WATERS,
PAUL SOLMAN ON THE DIFFERENT
ECONOMIC ATTITUDES OF THE
PILGRIMS AND NATIVE PEOPLE IN
PLYMOUTH.
PLUS, A LOOK BACK AT NORMAN
ROCKWELL'S "FREEDOM FROM WANT."
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE "PBS
NEWSHOUR," HAPPY HANNUKAH, HAPPY
THANKSGIVING, AND HAVE A GOOD
NIGHT.